In the last lecture we learned how to navigate programmatically.
Now when you also have a look at how we can use relative posterity.
So back in our service component let's say we have again our reload page link.
But this time it's a button here with Button button primary.
And still we might use this approach because we want to do some different things.
So reload page and here we'll have my click listener on reload maybe.
So if we now go to our typescript code here on reload we'll simply or will be the method which gets
triggered and we all get injectors.
Service Service year.
I also want to inject the router so lets add a router here.
Make sure to add the import from Ed angle or router.
So we learnt that now we could say this router navigate and now let's add slash service here.
If we do this and we save this page and we go to the service page and click reload nothing happens we
don't get an error because we are already on that page.
Technically it still reloads the page.
But keep in mind it never sends a request so does reload Ike and will never spin.
But Aykroyd's simply determined that we are on this page so no further action is needed.
Now lets say we do move to slash at the beginning.
So we turned us into a relative path and we still are on the service component.
Keep this in mind.
So now if just reloaded and clicked this page we still don't get an error.
And now this might be strange because before when we use the router link you saw that we did get an
error or because it would try to add servers to the end of the.
And of course this route now doesn't exist.
So why does it work fine if we use to navigate method because unlike the router link the navigate method
doesn't know on which route you are currently on so to say the router link always knows in which component
it sits in which components template and they read knows what the currently loaded route is.
They could argue that here we also call is inside the component types of code so it could determine
where that is in but it's just not how it works.
So to tell us where we currently are in we have to pass a second argument to deny that we get method
which is a javascript object.
And here we can configure this navigation action.
Now I will come back to this later because there are more things we can add but one configuration is
relative to property here.
Here we define relative to which route This link should be loaded and by default this is always the
root domain which is why we didn't get an error for.
Sarah's POV.
Here we have to give a route though so we don't pass a string here.
Instead the route is something we can inject here too.
We can get the currently active for out by injecting route which is a type activated route and make
sure to import activated route from the at Angola router package to now act the way that road like the
name implies simply injects the currently active routes of four to component you load it.
This will be the route which loaded this component and the route simply is kind of a complex javascript
object which keeps a lot of meta information about the currently active route.
Now we can set this as a value so this route does inject that route.
Florida relative to property.
And now with that extra piece of information angler knows what our currently active route is.
And theoretically you could also set this to some other route which you would have to get by some way.
So here we are tailing it now are currently active for outdistance actuator routes relative to this
route.
You should navigate and then it will simply resolve all the relative pops you might have here relative
to this route.
So if does change or change in place we now click this button again.
Now we broke the app because now it again tries to find servers slash service which doesn't exist.
So great.
We broke the app but with that you should understand how you can work with relative povs in the navigator
Meffert you to find a relative to what this pauvres should be loaded.
The divulges the route you IRL that might be the behavior you're looking for it might not be the behavior
you're looking for.
You can change it with this extra javascript object.
Second argument to navigate method where you have to relative to property.
You can set to the route you want to navigate relative to.
For now I will simply comment this out to disable this not working button and still keep the code in
this example project